samples: psa_firmware: fix documentation (#49275)
zephyrproject-rtos/zephyr: samples/tfm_integration/psa_firmware/README.rst

handle secure TF-M API calls and responses. The OS-specific code to handle
the IPC calls is in ``tfm_ipc.c``.

> TF-M supports three types of firmware upgrade mechanisms : ``https://tf-m-user-guide.trustedfirmware.org/docs/technical_references/design_docs/tfm_secure_boot.html#firmware-upgrade-operation``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TF-M supports three types of firmware upgrade mechanisms:
``https://tf-m-user-guide.trustedfirmware.org/docs/technical_references/design_docs/tfm_secure_boot.html#firmware-upgrade-operation``
```

> This example showcases the overwrite firmware upgrade mechanism and upgrading only the
> non-secure image which can build from any other zephyr/samples/tfm_integration directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example showcases the overwrite firmware upgrade mechanism, as well as
upgrading the non-secure image which can be built from any other sample in the
``zephyr/samples/tfm_integration`` directory.
```

The sample prints test info to the console either as a single-thread or
multi-thread application.

Building and Running
********************

This project needs another firmware as the update payload. It must use another
example's hex file, and should be specified on the command line

> as ``CONFIG_APP_FIRMWARE_UPDATE_IMAGE``. For example, to use the sample
> ``tfm_integration/tfm_ipc`` as the payload.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
as ``CONFIG_APP_FIRMWARE_UPDATE_IMAGE``.

To use the ``tfm_integration/tfm_ipc`` sample as the NS firmware update
payload, follow the instructions below:
```

This sample will only build on a Linux or macOS development system
(not Windows), and has been tested on the following setups:

- macOS Big Sur using QEMU 6.0.0 with gcc-arm-none-eabi-9-2020-q2-update
- Linux (NixOS) using QEMU 6.2.0 with gcc from Zephyr SDK 0.14.1
- Targets ``MPS3 AN547`` and ``NXP LPCXPRESSO55S69``

On MPS3 AN547:
===============

Build:
======

> 1. Build Zephyr tfm_ipc sample with a non-secure configuration, which is the firmware image going
> to used by psa_firmware update:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Build the ``tfm_ipc`` sample with the non-secure board configuration, which will 
generate the firmware image we'll use in ``psa_firmware`` during the update:
```

.. code-block:: bash

>    cd <ZEPHYR_ROOT>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   cd $ZEPHYR_BASE
```

   west build -p -b mps3_an547_ns samples/tfm_integration/tfm_ipc/ \
   -d build/mps3_an547_ns/tfm_integration/tfm_ipc

2. Build psa_firmware

.. code-block:: bash

>    cd <ZEPHYR_ROOT>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   cd $ZEPHYR_BASE
```

   west build -p -b mps3_an547_ns samples/tfm_integration/psa_firmware \
   -d build/mps3_an547_ns/tfm_integration/psa_firmware \
   -- -DCONFIG_APP_FIRMWARE_UPDATE_IMAGE=\"full/path/to/zephyr/build/mps3_an547_ns/tfm_integration/tfm_ipc/zephyr/zephyr.hex\"

> Note:
> This sample includes pre-build firmware hello-an547.hex under boards directory and if you are not
> passing the CONFIG_APP_FIRMWARE_UPDATE_IMAGE command line argument at step 2, it automatically
> uses the pre-built hex.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note:
This sample includes a pre-built firmware image (``hello-an547.hex``) in the ``boards``
directory. If you don't pass the ``CONFIG_APP_FIRMWARE_UPDATE_IMAGE`` command
line argument during step 2 (``-- -DCONFIG_APP_FIRMWARE_UPDATE_IMAGE=...``),
this sample will automatically uses the pre-built hex file.
```

handle secure TF-M API calls and responses. The OS-specific code to handle
the IPC calls is in ``tfm_ipc.c``.

> TF-M supports three types of firmware upgrade mechanisms: ``https://tf-m-user-guide.trustedfirmware.org/docs/technical_references/design_docs/tfm_secure_boot.html#firmware-upgrade-operation``

Reviewer: Can you put the url on a new line?

handle secure TF-M API calls and responses. The OS-specific code to handle
the IPC calls is in ``tfm_ipc.c``.

TF-M supports three types of firmware upgrade mechanisms:
``https://tf-m-user-guide.trustedfirmware.org/docs/technical_references/design_docs/tfm_secure_boot.html#firmware-upgrade-operation``

This example uses the overwrite firmware upgrade mechanism, in particular, it showcases

> upgrading the non-secure image which can be built from any other sample in the

Author: I think we can't state like configuration with `CONFIG_BUILD_WITH_TFM=y` as it requires extra configuration specific to firmware upgrade

```
CONFIG_TFM_IPC=y
CONFIG_TFM_PARTITION_FIRMWARE_UPDATE=y
```

Our expectation should work with all the samples available in the `zephyr/samples` directory, and irrespective of sample, this example uses the overwrite firmware upgrade mechanism, especially we are showing to update only non-secure-image and the user needs to know this.

In the `Build`" section `Note`, we mentioned that easy to try with pre-build hello_world hex available at this sample `boards` directory

``zephyr/samples/tfm_integration`` directory.

The sample prints test info to the console either as a single-thread or
multi-thread application.

Building and Running
********************

This project needs another firmware as the update payload. It must use another
example's hex file, and should be specified on the command line
as ``CONFIG_APP_FIRMWARE_UPDATE_IMAGE``.

> To use the ``tfm_integration/tfm_ipc`` sample as the NS firmware update

Author: I prefer to have tfm based sample as a tfm-based sample normally generates a different set of build images at the end like `zephyr_ns_signed.hex, tfm_s_signed.hex, zephyr.hex etc.,`. sometimes it confuses which image to use for the upgrade and it's better to showcase based on that.

As mentioned earlier, we have the pre-build hex from the `hello_world` sample in this sample board's directory and users can use it if they want to try.

payload, follow the instructions below:

This sample will only build on a Linux or macOS development system

> (not Windows), and has been tested on the following setups:

Author: Not any particular reason as I don't have a setup for windows. I confirmed that Jimmy tested on mac and I tested on Ubuntu.

> (not Windows), and has been tested on the following setups:

Reviewer: I think this may have been something with very early versions of TF-M (I've since forgotten why!) that no longer applies. I don't have a Windows machine to test on, but should probably setup a VM at some point. We can cycle back to this in another PR once I can confirm everything works in Windows, though. It's a good idea to check anyway, and make sure the rest of the documentation is out to date, but out of scope here.

- macOS Big Sur using QEMU 6.0.0 with gcc-arm-none-eabi-9-2020-q2-update
- Linux (NixOS) using QEMU 6.2.0 with gcc from Zephyr SDK 0.14.1
- Targets ``MPS3 AN547`` and ``NXP LPCXPRESSO55S69``

On MPS3 AN547:
===============

Build:
======

1. Build the ``tfm_ipc`` sample with the non-secure board configuration, which will
generate the firmware image we'll use in ``psa_firmware`` during the update:

.. code-block:: bash

   cd $ZEPHYR_BASE

>    west build -p -b mps3_an547_ns samples/tfm_integration/tfm_ipc/ \

Reviewer 2: Also I think the build folders you have are longer than necessary.
`build_psa_firmware` and `build_tfm_ipc`.
or
`build/psa_firmware` and `build/tfm_ipc` would me enough.

>    west build -p -b mps3_an547_ns samples/tfm_integration/tfm_ipc/ \

Author: I will change this based on `zephyr-app-command`s and make a shorter build folder path.

``zephyr/samples`` directory.

The sample prints test info to the console either as a single-thread or
multi-thread application.

Building and Running
********************

This project needs another firmware as the update payload. It must use another
example's hex file, and should be specified on the command line
as ``CONFIG_APP_FIRMWARE_UPDATE_IMAGE``.

To use the ``tfm_integration/tfm_ipc`` sample as the NS firmware update
payload, follow the instructions below:

This sample will only build on a Linux or macOS development system
(not Windows), and has been tested on the following setups:

- macOS Big Sur using QEMU 6.0.0 with gcc-arm-none-eabi-9-2020-q2-update
- Linux (NixOS) using QEMU 6.2.0 with gcc from Zephyr SDK 0.14.1
- Targets ``MPS3 AN547`` and ``NXP LPCXPRESSO55S69``

On MPS3 AN547:
===============

Build:
======

1. Build the ``tfm_ipc`` sample with the non-secure board configuration, which will
generate the firmware image we'll use in ``psa_firmware`` during the update:

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :zephyr-app: samples/tfm_integration/tfm_ipc
   :host-os: unix
   :board: mps3_an547_ns
   :goals: build
   :build-dir: build/tfm_ipc

>    :compact:

Reviewer: Is the white space here correct? It looks like there is a difference between the old and new code.

      IMAGE1ADDRESS: 0x10080000
      IMAGE1FILE: \SOFTWARE\tfm_sign.bin ; TF-M with application binary blob

> 2. Save the file, exit the editor, and reset the MPS3 board.

Reviewer: Please verify number here

Run in QEMU:
============

.. code-block:: bash

   qemu-system-arm -M mps3-an547 -device loader,file=path/to/zephyr/build/mps3_an547_ns/tfm_integration/psa_firmware/tfm_merged.hex -serial stdio  -d cpu_reset,unimp,guest_errors

> or you can manually pass the ``-t run`` extra argument before `--` at psa_firmware build `west build` command to automatically build and run in QEMU.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
or you can manually pass the ``-t run`` extra argument before `--` to the
`west build` command to automatically build and run in QEMU.
```

On LPCxpresso55S69:
===================

> 1. Build Zephyr tfm_ipc sample with a non-secure configuration, which is the firmware image going to used for update by psa_firmware:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Build the ``tfm_ipc`` sample with the non-secure board configuration, which will 
generate the firmware image we'll use in ``psa_firmware`` during the update:
```

.. code-block:: bash

>    west build -p -b lpcxpresso55s69_ns samples/tfm_integration/tfm_ipc/ \
>    -d build/lpcxpresso55s69_ns/tfm_integration/tfm_ipc

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   cd $ZEPHYR_BASE
   west build -p -b lpcxpresso55s69_ns samples/tfm_integration/tfm_ipc/ \
   -d build/lpcxpresso55s69_ns/tfm_integration/tfm_ipc
```

2. Build psa_firmware:

.. code-block:: bash

>    cd <ZEPHYR_ROOT>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   cd $ZEPHYR_BASE
```

      IMAGE1ADDRESS: 0x10080000
      IMAGE1FILE: \SOFTWARE\tfm_sign.bin ; TF-M with application binary blob

3. Save the file, exit the editor, and reset the MPS3 board.

Run in QEMU:
============

.. code-block:: bash

   qemu-system-arm -M mps3-an547 -device loader,file=path/to/zephyr/build/mps3_an547_ns/tfm_integration/psa_firmware/tfm_merged.hex -serial stdio  -d cpu_reset,unimp,guest_errors

> or you can manually pass the ``-t run`` extra argument before `--` to the `west build` command to automatically build and run in QEMU.

Reviewer 2: Why always show this way to run it, using goals: run in zephyr-app-commands, is there a reason for displaying the long command here?

The zephyr-app-commands structure is there for easier maintenance of the entire collection of readmes for the samples. I think we should use it if we can.

Author: I will change this based on `zephyr-app-commands`

      [Sec Thread] Secure image initializing!
      Booting TF-M v1.6.0+8cffe127
      Creating an empty ITS flash layout.
      Creating an empty PS flash layout.
      *** Booting Zephyr OS build zephyr-v3.1.0-3851-g2bef8051b2fc  ***
      PSA Firmware API test
      Active S image version: 0.0.3-0
      Active NS image version: 0.0.1-0
      Starting FWU; Writing Firmware from 21000000 size 17802 bytes
      Wrote Firmware; Writing Header from 2100458a size    16 bytes
      Wrote Header; Installing Image
      Installed New Firmware; Reboot Needed; Rebooting
      [WRN] This device was provisioned with dummy keys. This device is NOT SECURE
      [Sec Thread] Secure image initializing!
      Booting TF-M v1.6.0+8cffe127
      *** Booting Zephyr OS build zephyr-v3.1.0-3851-g2bef8051b2fc  ***
      The version of the PSA Framework API is 257.
      The minor version is 1.
      Connect success!
      TF-M IPC on mps3_an547

Common Problems
***************

Compilation fails with ``Error: Header padding was not requested...``
=====================================================================

> If you are building this sample, update firmware ``CONFIG_APP_FIRMWARE_UPDATE_IMAGE`` command line
> argument with signed non-secure hex (zephyr_ns_signed.hex), then you will notice the build failure.
> 
> Make sure you pass ``unsigned non-secure image (zephyr.hex)`` on ``CONFIG_APP_FIRMWARE_UPDATE_IMAGE``.

Reviewer: This comment is very unclear to me. It sounds like you get this error when you pass a SIGNED image in, and that we are expecting an UNSIGNED image in this sample? If so, the following is likely clearer:

```suggestion
This error occurs when passing a signed image to ``CONFIG_APP_FIRMWARE_UPDATE_IMAGE``
on the command line, ex: ``zephyr_ns_signed.hex``.

Make sure you pass an unsigned, non-secure image (ex. ``zephyr.hex``) to ``CONFIG_APP_FIRMWARE_UPDATE_IMAGE``.
```
